In this lesson, we'll explore how you can develop or migrate a WordPress Web site at a live host before
the DNS is pointing to the domain.
You'll learn how to edit the hosts file on a Windows computer to fool the browser into thinking the
domain is live at your server's IP address.
By the end of this video, you'll understand how you can set up a working site behind the scenes in
an environment only you can see and then point the domain with DNS after you're finished in my grid
pattern hosting.
I'm just going to make up a domain name.
I don't even have to have this domain name registered, and it's just going to be my test domain.
Dot com.
I don't know who owns that domain, but I don't, and I'm going to go ahead and put that on one of my
servers, and then I'll have it create a new system user, as I did before.
I'm not going to set up a DNS API integration instead of just going to click none so that I don't actually
have to set up this DNS system.
So if I click Add Site here, it's just starting to build it like it did before with the last migration
that we did.
So if I want to for my browser into going to a domain name that either doesn't exist or one that is
not yet pointed to the server where I'm doing the website development at a different IP address, I
can use the hosts file on my windows computer or on my Mac in order to change the operating system and
think that this domain name is hosted at this IP address.
That's how you can do web development in the background before pointing the DNS over to the new server,
even while the old server is either nonexistent or while it's running as a previously designed website.
Let's look at how to do that on Windows.
So I'm down here a little bit off screen here in my search bar, and I've opened up the Little Windows
search bar and I'm starting to type notepad.
And so I'm going to right click Notepad and click run as administrator.
It's important that you run Notepad as administrator when you're using Windows so that you can actually
edit the hosts file and access that to be able to fool your computer into navigating to this domain
name at this IP address.
And so once you have notepad open under the administrator account, then you go to file open and you're
trying to open a particular folder and file here on your computer.
And you can see I've done this recently.
It's already opening the folder I need and where it's located is in the main hard drive the Windows
CE colon drive under Windows System32 drivers and the ETSI folder.
And so if I just go back where you would, wherever you are in windows, you would you would click the
Windows CE colon and then you would double click the Windows folder and then go down to the S's, where
it's System32 and then to the DS, where it's drivers.
And then the ETSI folder.
And looking at this, there doesn't seem to be anything in here.
And the reason is I'm trying to open a text file with notepad.
And so go down here just over the open and cancel buttons and click all files.
And then that'll show you all file types that are inside of that ETSI folder.
And so you're looking for this hosts folder so you can click it and then click open.
Or you could double click hosts.
And now what we're looking at is the hosts file that Microsoft uses for navigating to a different IP
addresses through the browser and different ways of navigating on the internet.
And so the the top section with all of these comment hashtags is the standard with the hosts file has
in it now by default.
Anything down below are things that potentially if you're using a local development environment like
like a local, you might have a whole section like this.
This one is commented out.
It says local by flywheel because local used to be called local by flywheel, and it is owned by a flywheel.
But the local local development environment puts these different indicators in the hosts file so that
he can use that extension called Dot Local without having to register those on the internet.
And so there's other things just up here.
This is where Lara gone.
The local development environment puts its hosts file entries.
There's some up here.
Desktop server is another local development environment, and I've set some of these manually when I'm
doing just what we're doing here.
And so.
To do is just anywhere below and any of your locations here, you can just put a couple of carriage
returns or hit, enter a couple of times and you can go ahead and go to the grid paint or wherever your
site is hosted and copy controls.
See that IP address where you have this fake domain registered.
And so now open up the hosts file again and I'm going to paste that IP address.
And then you could either have a space or a tab, and then you're going to put the domain name my test
domain rt.com.
I'm hitting copy controls.
See, and then I'll paste it.
And then you can always use a hash mark or the the hash tag symbol to put a comment in there.
And I would I usually put, you know, points to somewhere.
And for me, it's the grid pain over each server.
And so once I've got that in there, I can control SE and that little asterisk goes away when the when
the file is saved or I could hit file save.
And now this hosts file is saved with a new entry that's going to point this domain name to this IP
address, so we can test that by going to the web site itself.
If I just copy the domain name and put it in my browser, let's see what comes up.
Well, look, it's a fresh website that I just installed via a grid pin at this domain name.
Even though this domain name, if I log in from another computer, it doesn't really exist.
It points to someone else's website or a parking page.
Now I can develop a website at this domain name, and then later on, I can go to Cloudflare or wherever
the DNS is hosted and I can point it to the live new website.
If we just go to, Oh, let's do this, go into grid pane, and if I go to the domain name here and
click the single sign on, it should be able to open me a new tab and log me into the WordPress dashboard.
So even though this site is not accessible to the public at this domain name, I've fooled my computer
using the hosts file into thinking that this domain name works.
And with that said, these actual URLs are present in the database.
Even we can take a look under Settings General and if we look there, that's where the WordPress address
and the site URL are this actual domain name.
So I'm developing this website correctly at the correct you URL.
If we even go into grid pain and we were to navigate to phpMyAdmin and open the database, we could
even inspect the database under WP options and look and see that the site URL in the home URLs are the
My Test Domain Dakar.
Now, like I said, no other person would be able to navigate to this.
So it's a great way to either develop a website or to change a website and redesign it in the background
at a different server before the DNS is pointed.
And that way, you can migrate a site in a seamless fashion without having the new site ever go down
or need a maintenance mode or a coming soon.
Page can just have a seamless process where there's absolutely no downtime.